Waiting for a computer game
player to make a turn is no fun.
After two seconds of waiting,
a human player is likely to
start thinking of other things.
We really need a way to
choose a move quickly.
>> Well, we can't search to end game but
how can we search?
>> Let's assume again that we can search
ten to the ninth nodes per second.
So in two seconds we can actually search
two times ten to the ninth nodes.
So we need to solve the equation eight
to the X is less than two times ten
to the ninth.
We can do this by taking log
base eight on both sides.
>> That log base eight
is pretty annoying.
>> Yup,
time to bring out some old math skills.
We know that log A of X is equal to
the log B of X over the log B of A.
So we can use that formula
to solve our problem.
We'll use log base ten here for
convenience.
So we end up with X is
less than log base ten
of two times ten to the ninth
over log base ten of eight.
And we end up with X
being less than 10.3.
>> So we should be okay if we
only search ten levels deep?
>> Provided that our estimate of a
branching factor of eight on average is
good.
To be on the safe side let's
only go to depth nine.
This idea of only going as far as we
think we can to safely meet our deadline
is called a depth limited search.